Update summer 2022 (#32)
UtrechtUniversity/research-engineering: _pages/projects/index.md

|As an extension to [Data-Donation](#data_donation) project, In this project we developed scripts to extract information from Whatsapp data download packages. In this study respondents can voluntary donate their group chats and/or their account information files through an online platform (PORT).|

| Better life index |
| --- | 
| **Time frame**: 08/2022 - present |
| **Research domain**: Faculty of Humanities |
| **Technologies**: Python, Django, Flask | 
| **Research Engineers**:  [Roel Brouwer](https://www.uu.nl/staff/RJJBrouwer), [Jelle Treep](https://www.uu.nl/staff/HJTreep) |
| We create a backend for a web application for yearly publication of the Better life index ("Brede welvaart index") in the Netherlands. |

| Streetview - Water |
| --- | 
| **Time frame**: 06/2022 - present |
| **Research domain**: Faculty of Veterinary Medicine |
| **Technologies**: Python, Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Visual Transformers, Docker | 
| **Research Engineers**:  [Raoul Schram](https://www.uu.nl/staff/RDSchram), [Maarten Schermer](https://github.com/maartenschermer) |

> | We are using recent computer vision models based on Visual Transformers for semantic segmentation, assigning semantic classes such as "street", "vegetation" and "water" to the pixels of photos taken in the urban environment. This will be used in further research into the effect of the presence of water bodies and vegetation on human well-being. |

Author: ```suggestion
| We are using recent computer vision models based on Visual Transformers for semantic segmentation, assigning semantic classes such as "street", "vegetation" and "water" to the pixels of photos taken in the urban environment. This will be used for further research into the effect of the presence of water bodies and vegetation on human well-being. |
```

| Semantics of Sustainability |
| --- | 
| **Time frame**: 07/2022 - present |
| **Research domain**: Faculty of Humanities, History and Art History |
| **Technologies**: Python, NLP, BERT, Deep learning, Huggingface Transformers | 
| **Research Engineers**: [Parisa Zahedi](https://www.uu.nl/staff/PZahedi)| 

> | The aim of this project is investigating the conceptual history of a certain topic in a collection of texts. To this end we work on Dutch language models for historical research. The current available language models for Dutch (at time of writing) fall short for historical research, because they are trained only on recent data. The performance of models can decline steadily when applied on data that lies outside of the distribution of the training on corpora.

Author: ```suggestion
| The aim of this project is to investigatate the conceptual history of a certain topic in a collection of texts. To this end we work on Dutch language models for historical research. The current available language models for Dutch (at time of writing) fall short for historical research, because they are trained only on recent data. The performance of models declines steadily when applied to data that lies outside of the distribution of the training on corpora.
```

| [MetaSynth](https://github.com/sodascience/meta-synth) | 
| --- | 
| **Time frame**: 04/2022 - present |
| **Research domain**: Department of Methodology & Statistics |
| **Technologies**: Python, Machine Learning, Synthetic data, Privacy | 
| **Research Engineers**:  [Raoul Schram](https://www.uu.nl/staff/RDSchram) |

> | Privacy and proper disclosure control is a hot topic at the moment. This project aims to create a standard to share statistical information and generate synthetic data. One part of the project fits a distribution to each of the variables, while the other part can generate a synthetic dataset from this information. In between, there is a metadata file that contains the condensed information and is human-readable. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Privacy and proper disclosure control is a hot topic at the moment. This project aims to create a standard to share statistical information and generate synthetic data. MetaSynth fits a distribution to each of the variables, while it also generates a synthetic dataset from this information. In between, there is a generative metadata file that contains the condensed information as a human-readable JSON file. |
```

| --- | 
| **Time frame**: 05/2020 - present |
| **Research domain**: Faculty of Geosciences, Dynamics of Innovation Systems|
| **Technologies**: Webscraping, Internet Archive, Pipeline, Internet, Python, Kinesis Firehose, AWS, Terraform| 
| **Research Engneers**: Casper Kaandorp, [Martine de Vos](https://www.uu.nl/staff/MgdeVos), [Maarten Schermer](https://github.com/maartenschermer) |
| The Crunchbase project assesses the sustainability of European startup-companies by analyzing their websites. As the researcher is interested in the current, as well as the pre-Corona situation, we scrape webpages from the Internet Archive. Together with [SURF](https://www.surf.nl/en/custom-cloud-solutions) we have developed a pipeline for collecting and analyzing these webpages, using AWS as infrastructure.|

### Completed projects

| Coast Snap |
| --- |
| **Time frame**: 10/2021 - 06/2022 |
| **Research domain**: Faculty of Geosciences |
| **Technologies**: Python, Elixir, Databases, Web development | 
| **Research Engineers**: [Casper Kaandorp](https://github.com/cskaandorp) |

> | For this citizen science project, we created a web application for collecting and processing pictures of the shoreline take by citizens at different locations in the Netherlands |

Author: ```suggestion
| For this citizen science project, we created a web application for collecting and processing pictures of the shoreline taken by citizens at different locations in the Netherlands |
```
